---
description: WRKY transcription factor 53 ; Pbr018725.1 ; Pyrus betulaefolia
meta_title:
title: PbrWRKY53
categories: [Pyrus betulaefolia]
tags: [ transcription factor,drought,stress,drought stress,salt,tolerance,nucleus,cold tolerance,cold stress,drought tolerance,salt tolerance,salt stress,cold,stress tolerance,abscisic acid,reactive oxygen species ]
---

## Gene Details:
- **Gene ID:** [Pbr018725.1]()
- **Gene Symbol:** <u>PbrWRKY53</u>
- **Gene Name:** WRKY transcription factor 53
- **Genome:** []()
- **Species:** *Pyrus betulaefolia*

## Functional Descriptions:
   - A WRKY transcription factor **PbrWRKY53** from Pyrus betulaefolia is involved in drought tolerance and AsA accumulation.
   - **PbrWRKY53** was greatly up-regulated by drought and abscisic acid, but slightly induced by salt and cold. Subcellar localization analyses showed that **PbrWRKY53** was located in the nucleus.
   - Ectopic expression of **PbrWRKY53** in tobacco and Pyrus ussuriensis conferred enhanced tolerance to drought stress. The transgenic plants exhibited better water status, less reactive oxygen species generation and higher levels of antioxidant enzyme activities and metabolites than the wild type.
   - Overexpression of **PbrWRKY53** in transgenic tobacco resulted in enhanced expression level of PbrNCED1, and led to the increase in larger amount of vitamin C accumulation in comparison to WT.
   - Knock-down of **PbrWRKY53** in P. ussuriensis down-regulated PbrNCED1 abundance, accompanied by compromised drought tolerance.
   - These results demonstrated that **PbrWRKY53** plays a positive role in drought tolerance, which might be, at least in part, promoting production of vitamin C via regulating PbrNCED1 expression.

## Function-related keywords:
   - [transcription-factor](/tags/transcription-factor/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[drought](/tags/drought/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[stress](/tags/stress/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[drought-stress](/tags/drought-stress/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[salt](/tags/salt/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[tolerance](/tags/tolerance/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[nucleus](/tags/nucleus/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[cold-tolerance](/tags/cold-tolerance/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[cold-stress](/tags/cold-stress/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[drought-tolerance](/tags/drought-tolerance/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[salt-tolerance](/tags/salt-tolerance/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[salt-stress](/tags/salt-stress/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[cold](/tags/cold/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[stress-tolerance](/tags/stress-tolerance/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[abscisic-acid](/tags/abscisic-acid/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[reactive-oxygen-species](/tags/reactive-oxygen-species/)

## Literature:
   - [A WRKY transcription factor PbrWRKY53 from Pyrus betulaefolia is involved in drought tolerance and AsA accumulation.](https://doi.org/10.1111/pbi.13099)&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/pbi.13099](https://doi.org/10.1111/pbi.13099);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[30801865](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30801865/)

## Related News:

## Gene Resources:
- **NCBI ID:**  [](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/?term=)
- **UniProt accessions:**  [](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprotkb//entry)

## Orthologs:

## Sequences:
- **CDS Sequence:**
- **Protein Sequence:**
