---
description: LOC_Os03g11614 ; Os03g0215400 ; Oryza sativa
meta_title:
title: OsLG3b;OsMADS1
categories: [Oryza sativa]
tags: [meristem, palea, fertility, leaf, spikelet, branching, heading date, transcription factor, sterile, inflorescence, floral, flower, cytokinin, spikelet meristem, stamen, lemma, panicle, architecture, auxin, reproductive, floral meristem, growth, vegetative, seed, spikelet development, development, floral organ, flower development, organ identity, R protein, floral meristem determinacy, grain, domestication, grain length, yield, breeding, seed development, grain size, map-based cloning, quality, grain shape, ovule, homologous recombination]
---

## Gene Details:
- **MSU gene ID:** [LOC_Os03g11614](http://rice.uga.edu/cgi-bin/ORF_infopage.cgi?orf=LOC_Os03g11614)  
- **RAPdb gene ID:** [Os03g0215400](https://rapdb.dna.affrc.go.jp/locus/?name=Os03g0215400)  
- **Gene Symbol:** OsLG3b;OsMADS1;LHS1;AFO
- **Gene Name:**
- **Genome:**  [MSU7](http://rice.uga.edu/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[IRGSP-1.0](https://rapdb.dna.affrc.go.jp/download/irgsp1.html)
- **Species:** *Oryza sativa*

## Functional Descriptions:
   - **OsMADS1** is not expressed during panicle branching; earliest expression is in spikelet meristems where it is excluded from the outer rudimentary/sterile glumes.
   - **OsMADS1** knockdown perturbs the differentiation of specific cell types in the lemma and palea, creating glume-like features, with severe derangements in lemma differentiation.
   - We thus demonstrate the differential contribution of **OsMADS1** for lemma versus palea development and provide evidence for its regulatory function in patterning inner whorl organs.
   - **OsMADS1**, a rice MADS-box factor, controls differentiation of specific cell types in the lemma and palea and is an early-acting regulator of inner floral organs.
   - Auxin-responsive OsMGH3, a common downstream target of **OsMADS1** and OsMADS6, controls rice floret fertility.
   - Simultaneous knockdown of the four rice SEP-like genes **OsMADS1**, OsMADS5, OsMADS7 and OsMADS8, leads to homeotic transformation of all floral organs except the lemma into leaf-like organs.
   - Collectively, our study suggests that the origin and diversification of OsMADS34 and **OsMADS1** contribute to the origin of distinct grass inflorescences and spikelets.
   - The overexpression of OsMGH3 during the vegetative phase affects the overall plant architecture, whereas its inflorescence-specific overexpression creates short panicles with reduced branching, resembling in part the effects of **OsMADS1** overexpression.
   - During organogenesis, **OsMADS1** expression is confined to the lemma and palea, with weak expression in the carpel.
   - Together, these data suggest a distinct role for **OsMADS1** and its monocot relatives in assigning lemma/palea identity.
   - Ectopic expression of rice **OsMADS1** reveals a role in specifying the lemma and palea, grass floral organs analogous to sepals.
   - RT-PCR analyses of the OsMADS50 KO and ubiquitin (ubi):OsMADS50 plants showed that OsMADS50 is an upstream regulator of **OsMADS1**, **OsMADS1**4, **OsMADS1**5, **OsMADS1**8, and Hd (Heading date)3a, but works either parallel with or downstream of Hd1 and O.
   - OsMGH3/OsGH3-8 is expressed abundantly in rice florets and is regulated by two related and redundant transcription factors, **OsMADS1** and OsMADS6, but its contribution to flower development is not known.
   - These characteristics are very similar to those of leafy hull sterile1 (**LHS1**).
   - And molecular analysis indicated that nsr was a novel homeotic mutation in **OsMADS1**, suggesting that **OsMADS1** played a distinct role in regulating the differentiation pattern of floral primordium and in conferring the determination of flower meristem.
   - The multiple effects of **OsMADS1** in promoting auxin transport, signaling, and auxin-dependent expression and its direct repression of three cytokinin A-type response regulators show its role in balancing meristem growth, lateral organ differentiation, and determinacy.
   - leafy hull sterile1/**OsMADS1**, from a grass-specific subgroup of LOFSEP genes, is required for specifying a single floret on the spikelet meristem and for floret organ development, but its downstream mechanisms are unknown.
   - Severe loss-of-function mutations of **OsMADS1**cause complete homeotic conversion of organs (lodicules, stamens, and carpels) of three inner whorls into lemma- and palea-like structures.
   - The gain-of-function of **OsMADS1** transgenic lines presented the transformation of outer glumes to lemma-/palea-like organs and no changes in length of lemma and palea, but loss-of-function of **OsMADS1** transgenic lines displayed the overdeveloped lemma and palea.
   - Both findings revealed that **OsMADS1** played a role in specifying lemma and palea and acted as a repressor of overdevelopment of lemma and palea.
   - Ectopic **OsMADS1** expression results in stunted panicles with irregularly positioned branches and spikelets.
   - Strikingly, mutation of a SEPALLATA (SEP)-like gene, **OsMADS1** (LHS1), enhanced the defect of osmads6 flowers, and no inner floral organs or glume-like structures were observed in whorls 2 and 3 of **OsMADS1**-z osmads6-1 flowers.
   - Furthermore, the **OsMADS1**-z osmads6-1 double mutants developed severely indeterminate floral meristems.
   - Our finding, therefore, suggests that the ancient OsMADS6 gene is able to specify floral state by determining floral organ and meristem identities in monocot crop rice together with **OsMADS1**.
   - In this work, we found three naturally occurring mutants in rice, namely, phoenix (pho), degenerative palea (dep), and abnormal floral organs (**AFO**).
   - 9-kb 5' upstream promoter region, are required for the GUS expression pattern that coincides with flower-preferential expression of **OsMADS1**.
   - Notably, incorporation of the intragenic region into the CaMV35S promoter directed the GUS expression pattern similar to that of the endogenous spatial expression of **OsMADS1** in flowers.
   - Conversely, ectopic **OsMADS1** expression suffices to direct lemma-like differentiation in the glume.
   - Moreover, analysis of the double mutant osmads34 **OsMADS1** suggests that OsMADS34 specifies the identities of floral organs, including the lemma/palea, lodicules, stamens, and carpel, in combination with another rice SEP-like gene, **OsMADS1**.
   - We also found that the floral meristem and organ identity gene Os**LHS1** showed altered expression with respect to both pattern and levels in the eg1 mutant, and is probably responsible for the pleiotropic floral defects in eg1.
   - Rice LHS1/**OsMADS1** controls floret meristem specification by coordinated regulation of transcription factors and hormone signaling pathways.
   - Thus, **OsMADS1** and **OsMADS1**5 are both required to ensure sexual reproduction in rice and mutations of them lead to the switch of reproductive habit from sexual to asexual in rice.
   - These results suggest that the **OsMADS1** gene is involved in flower induction and that it may be used for genetic manipulation of certain plant species.
   - Furthermore, the expression of two regulators of flowering, Hd3a and **OsMADS1**, was also affected in the nl1 mutant.
   - These phenotypes resemble the phenotypes caused by mutations of the dicot E-class genes, such as the Arabidopsis SEP123(SEPALLATA1/2/3) and the petunia FBP2(Floral Binding Protein 2), suggesting that **OsMADS1**play a very similar role in rice to that of defined E-class genes in dicot plants.
   - Conservation of the E-function for floral organ identity in rice revealed by the analysis of tissue culture-induced loss-of-function mutants of the **OsMADS1** gene.
   - **OsMADS1** is a rice MADS box gene necessary for floral development.
   - Through a screen for **OsMADS1** targets we identify a flower-specific Nt-gh3 type gene, OsMGH3, as a downstream gene.
   - It has been demonstrated previously that one of these genes, **OsMADS1** (for Oryza sativa MADS box gene1), is expressed preferentially in flowers and causes early flowering when ectopically expressed in tobacco plants.
   - In this study, we demonstrated that ectopic expression of **OsMADS1** in rice also results in early flowering.
   - To further investigate the role of **OsMADS1** during rice flower development, we generated transgenic rice plants expressing altered **OsMADS1** genes that contain missense mutations in the MADS domain.
   - DEP and **AFO** regulate reproductive habit in rice.
   - Morphogenesis and molecular basis on naked seed rice, a novel homeotic mutation of **OsMADS1** regulating transcript level of AP3 homologue in rice.
   - OsJAZ1 also interacts with OsMYC2, a transcription factor in the JA signalling pathway, and represses OsMYC2's role in activating **OsMADS1**, an E-class gene crucial to the spikelet development.
   - Interactions of **OsMADS1** with Floral Homeotic Genes in Rice Flower Development.
   - However, molecular mechanisms underlying interactions of **OsMADS1** with other floral homeotic genes in regulating flower development remains largely elusive.
   - The physical and genetic interaction of **OsMADS1** and OsMADS3 is essential for floral meristem activity maintenance and organ identity specification; while **OsMADS1** physically and genetically interacts with OsMADS58 in regulating floral meristem determinacy and suppressing spikelet meristem reversion.
   - Gene expression profiling further identified that **OsMADS1** regulates expression of **OsMADS1**7, and affects other genes involved in floral identity and hormone signaling.
   - In brief, this work provides new insights about the physical and regulatory interaction network of **OsMADS1** with other floral homeotic genes in rice floral organ identity specification and meristem determinacy.
   - In this work, we studied the genetic interactions of **OsMADS1** with B-, C-, and D-class genes along with physical interactions among their proteins, and provided some important evidence to further support the neofunctionalization of two rice C-class genes.
   - **OsMADS1** controls rice (Oryza sativa) floral fate and organ development.
   - Overall, **OsMADS1** binds to several regulatory genes and, probably in combination with other factors, controls a gene regulatory network that ensures rice floret development.
   - Genome-wide targets regulated by the **OsMADS1** transcription factor reveals its DNA recognition properties.
   - Combining expression data from **OsMADS1** knockdown florets with these DNA binding data, a snapshot of a gene regulatory network was deduced where targets, such as AP2/ERF and bHLH transcription factors and chromatin remodelers form nodes.
   - **OsMADS1** specifies the determinacy of spikelet meristem and lemma/palea identity in rice.
   - **OsMADS1** Represses microRNA172 in Elongation of Palea/Lemma Development in Rice.
   - However, the pathway through which **OsMADS1** regulates floral organs remains elusive; here, we identified the microRNA172 (miR172) family as possible regulators downstream of **OsMADS1**.
   - Our results suggested that in rice, **OsMADS1** and miR172s/AP2s formed a regulatory network involved in floral organ development, particularly the elongation of the lemma and the palea.
   - Quantitative PCR analysis indicated that **OsLG3b** expression was higher during the panicle and seed development stages.
   - Alternative<U+00A0>splicing of **OsLG3b** controls grain length and yield in japonica rice.
   - Six SNPs in the **OsLG3b** region led to alternative splicing, which were associated with grain length in an association analysis of candidate region.
   - Phylogenetic analysis and pedigree records showed that **OsLG3b** had been employed by breeders, but the gene still has much breeding potential for increasing grain length in indica.
   - Analysis of haplotypes and introgression regions revealed that the long-grain allele of **OsLG3b** might have arisen after domestication of tropical japonica and spread to subspecies indica or temperate japonica by natural crossing and artificial selection.
   - **OsLG3b** is therefore a target of human selection for adaptation to tropical regions during domestication and/or improvement of rice.
   - The G<a6><c3> subunits GS3 and DEP1 interact directly with the conserved keratin-like domain of MADS transcription factors, function as cofactors to enhance **OsMADS1** transcriptional activity and promote the co-operative transactivation of common target genes, thereby regulating grain size and shape.
   - Yet, several evidences suggest the evolution of distinctive functions for some of these rice floral regulators, the occurrence of other grass species-specific factors and regulatory pathways - for example LOFSEP 'E' class genes **OsMADS1** and OsMAD34 and ramosa genes.
   - Further linkage analysis indicated that the point mutation in the **OsMADS1**Olr is associated with Oat-like rice phenotype, and expression analysis of the **OsMADS1** by qRT-PCR and GUS staining also indicated that it is highly expressed in flower organs as well as in the early stages of grain development.
   - Finally, compared with Oat-like rice, **OsMADS1**Olr-overexpressing and **OsMADS1**-RNAi plants, mild phenotype of seed-specific **OsMADS1**-RNAi transgenic plants indicated that **OsMADS1** may has has a direct regulation role in grain development and the grain phenotypes of Oat-like rice, **OsMADS1**Olr-overexpressing and **OsMADS1**-RNAi plants are majorly caused by the abnormal lemma and palea development.
   - Characterization of the 'Oat-Like Rice' Caused by a Novel Allele **OsMADS1** Olr Reveals Vital Importance of **OsMADS1** in Regulating Grain Shape in Oryza sativa L.
   - Furthermore, our findings suggested that **OsMADS1** mediates grain shape possibly by affecting the expression of representative genes related to grain shape regulation.
   - Thus, this study not only revealed that **OsMADS1** plays a vital role in regulating grain shape of rice but also highlighted the importance and value of **OsMADS1** to improve the quality and yield of rice by molecular breeding.
   - By map-based cloning, we discovered that Oat-like rice harbors a novel allele of **OsMADS1** gene (**OsMADS1**Olr), which has a spontaneous point mutation that causes the substitution of an amino acid that is highly conserved in the MADS-box domain of the MADS-box family.
   - A new, stable, null mutant of **OsMADS1** generated by homologous recombination-based gene targeting in an indica rice confirms its regulatory role for floral meristem identity, its determinate development and floral organ differentiation.
   - Our data suggest, **OsMADS1** commits and maintains determinate floret development by regulating floral meristem termination, carpel and ovule differentiation genes (OsMADS58, **OsMADS1**3) while its modulation of genes such as **OsMADS1**5, OsIG1 and OsMADS32 could be relevant in the differentiation and development of palea.
   - We also noticed striking instances of floral reversion to inflorescence and vegetative states which has not been reported for other mutant alleles of **OsMADS1** and further reinforces the role of **OsMADS1** in controlling floral meristem determinacy.
   - Characterization of a new rice **OsMADS1** null mutant generated by homologous recombination-mediated gene targeting.
   - In this study, we generated an **OsMADS1** null mutant by homologous recombination-mediated gene targeting by inserting a selectable marker gene (hpt) in **OsMADS1** and replacing parts of its cis-regulatory and coding sequences.

## Function-related keywords:
   - [meristem](/tags/meristem/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[palea](/tags/palea/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[fertility](/tags/fertility/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[leaf](/tags/leaf/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[spikelet](/tags/spikelet/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[branching](/tags/branching/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[heading-date](/tags/heading-date/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[transcription-factor](/tags/transcription-factor/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[sterile](/tags/sterile/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[inflorescence](/tags/inflorescence/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[floral](/tags/floral/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[flower](/tags/flower/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[cytokinin](/tags/cytokinin/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[spikelet-meristem](/tags/spikelet-meristem/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[stamen](/tags/stamen/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[lemma](/tags/lemma/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[panicle](/tags/panicle/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[architecture](/tags/architecture/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[auxin](/tags/auxin/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[reproductive](/tags/reproductive/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[floral-meristem](/tags/floral-meristem/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[growth](/tags/growth/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[vegetative](/tags/vegetative/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[seed](/tags/seed/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[spikelet-development](/tags/spikelet-development/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[development](/tags/development/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[floral-organ](/tags/floral-organ/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[flower-development](/tags/flower-development/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[organ-identity](/tags/organ-identity/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[R-protein](/tags/R-protein/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[floral-meristem-determinacy](/tags/floral-meristem-determinacy/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[grain](/tags/grain/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[domestication](/tags/domestication/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[grain-length](/tags/grain-length/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[yield](/tags/yield/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[breeding](/tags/breeding/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[seed-development](/tags/seed-development/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[grain-size](/tags/grain-size/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[map-based-cloning](/tags/map-based-cloning/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[quality](/tags/quality/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[grain-shape](/tags/grain-shape/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[ovule](/tags/ovule/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[homologous-recombination](/tags/homologous-recombination/)

## Literature:
   - [Morphogenesis and molecular basis on naked seed rice, a novel homeotic mutation of OsMADS1 regulating transcript level of AP3 homologue in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s00425-005-0141-8).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1007/s00425-005-0141-8](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s00425-005-0141-8);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[16254725](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16254725/)
   - [MADS-box gene family in rice: genome-wide identification, organization and expression profiling during reproductive development and stress](https://www.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-8-242).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1186/1471-2164-8-242](https://www.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-8-242);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[17640358](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17640358/)
   - [Rice LHS1/OsMADS1 controls floret meristem specification by coordinated regulation of transcription factors and hormone signaling pathways](https://www.doi.org/10.1104/pp.112.212423).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1104/pp.112.212423](https://www.doi.org/10.1104/pp.112.212423);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[23449645](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23449645/)
   - [Intragenic control of expression of a rice MADS box gene OsMADS1](https://www.doi.org/).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[](https://www.doi.org/);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[18688178](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18688178/)
   - [The AGL6-like gene OsMADS6 regulates floral organ and meristem identities in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1038/cr.2009.143).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1038/cr.2009.143](https://www.doi.org/10.1038/cr.2009.143);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[20038961](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20038961/)
   - [NECK LEAF 1, a GATA type transcription factor, modulates organogenesis by regulating the expression of multiple regulatory genes during reproductive development in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1038/cr.2009.36).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1038/cr.2009.36](https://www.doi.org/10.1038/cr.2009.36);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[19337211](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19337211/)
   - [Functional analyses of the flowering time gene OsMADS50, the putative SUPPRESSOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CO 1/AGAMOUS-LIKE 20 (SOC1/AGL20) ortholog in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2004.02082.x).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/j.1365-313X.2004.02082.x](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2004.02082.x);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[15144377](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15144377/)
   - [OsMADS1, a rice MADS-box factor, controls differentiation of specific cell types in the lemma and palea and is an early-acting regulator of inner floral organs](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2005.02504.x).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/j.1365-313X.2005.02504.x](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2005.02504.x);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[16146529](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16146529/)
   - [Functional conservation and diversification of class E floral homeotic genes in rice (Oryza sativa)](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2009.04101.x).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/j.1365-313X.2009.04101.x](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2009.04101.x);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[20003164](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20003164/)
   - [OsLEC1/OsHAP3E participates in the determination of meristem identity in both vegetative and reproductive developments of rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/jipb.12025).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/jipb.12025](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/jipb.12025);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[23230849](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23230849/)
   - [DEP and AFO regulate reproductive habit in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1000818).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1371/journal.pgen.1000818](https://www.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1000818);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[20107517](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20107517/)
   - [A putative lipase gene EXTRA GLUME1 regulates both empty-glume fate and spikelet development in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2008.03710.x).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/j.1365-313X.2008.03710.x](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-313X.2008.03710.x);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[18980657](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18980657/)
   - [leafy hull sterile1 is a homeotic mutation in a rice MADS box gene affecting rice flower development](https://www.doi.org/10.1105/tpc.12.6.871).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1105/tpc.12.6.871](https://www.doi.org/10.1105/tpc.12.6.871);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10852934](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10852934/)
   - [Auxin-responsive OsMGH3, a common downstream target of OsMADS1 and OsMADS6, controls rice floret fertility](https://www.doi.org/10.1093/pcp/pcr142).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1093/pcp/pcr142](https://www.doi.org/10.1093/pcp/pcr142);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[22016342](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22016342/)
   - [The SEPALLATA-like gene OsMADS34 is required for rice inflorescence and spikelet development](https://www.doi.org/10.1104/pp.110.156711).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1104/pp.110.156711](https://www.doi.org/10.1104/pp.110.156711);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[20395452](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20395452/)
   - [Ectopic expression of rice OsMADS1 reveals a role in specifying the lemma and palea, grass floral organs analogous to sepals](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s004270100153).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1007/s004270100153](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s004270100153);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[11466523](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11466523/)
   - [Early flowering and reduced apical dominance result from ectopic expression of a rice MADS box gene](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/BF00013751).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1007/BF00013751](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/BF00013751);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[7948920](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7948920/)
   - [Conservation of the E-function for floral organ identity in rice revealed by the analysis of tissue culture-induced loss-of-function mutants of the OsMADS1 gene](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s11103-005-2161-y).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1007/s11103-005-2161-y](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s11103-005-2161-y);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[16217607](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16217607/)
   - [Interactions of OsMADS1 with Floral Homeotic Genes in Rice Flower Development](https://www.doi.org/10.1016/j.molp.2015.04.009).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1016/j.molp.2015.04.009](https://www.doi.org/10.1016/j.molp.2015.04.009);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[25917758](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25917758/)
   - [Genome-Wide Targets Regulated by the OsMADS1 Transcription Factor Reveals Its DNA Recognition Properties](https://www.doi.org/10.1104/pp.16.00789).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1104/pp.16.00789](https://www.doi.org/10.1104/pp.16.00789);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[27457124](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27457124/)
   - [OsMADS1 Represses microRNA172 in Elongation of Palea/Lemma Development in Rice](https://www.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.01891).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.3389/fpls.2016.01891](https://www.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.01891);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[28066457](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28066457/)
   - [Alternative splicing of OsLG3b controls grain length and yield in japonica rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/pbi.12903).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/pbi.12903](https://www.doi.org/10.1111/pbi.12903);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[29479793](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29479793/)
   - [G-protein βγ subunits determine grain size through interaction with MADS-domain transcription factors in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03047-9).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1038/s41467-018-03047-9](https://www.doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03047-9);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[29487282](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29487282/)
   - [Regulation of meristem maintenance and organ identity during rice reproductive development](https://www.doi.org/10.1093/jxb/erz046).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1093/jxb/erz046](https://www.doi.org/10.1093/jxb/erz046);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[30753578](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30753578/)
   - [Characterization of the 'Oat-Like Rice' Caused by a Novel Allele OsMADS1Olr Reveals Vital Importance of OsMADS1 in Regulating Grain Shape in Oryza sativa L](https://www.doi.org/10.1186/s12284-020-00428-x).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1186/s12284-020-00428-x](https://www.doi.org/10.1186/s12284-020-00428-x);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[33063229](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33063229/)
   - [Rice transcription factor MADS32 regulates floral patterning through interactions with multiple floral homeotic genes](https://www.doi.org/10.1093/jxb/eraa588).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1093/jxb/eraa588](https://www.doi.org/10.1093/jxb/eraa588);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[33337484](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33337484/)
   - [Bin-based genome-wide association studies reveal superior alleles for improvement of appearance quality using a 4-way MAGIC population in rice](https://www.doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2020.08.001).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1016/j.jare.2020.08.001](https://www.doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2020.08.001);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[33364055](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33364055/)
   - [Characterization of a new rice OsMADS1 null mutant generated by homologous recombination-mediated gene targeting](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s00425-020-03547-3).&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1007/s00425-020-03547-3](https://www.doi.org/10.1007/s00425-020-03547-3);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[33474591](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33474591/)

## Related News:

## Gene Resources:
- **NCBI ID:**  [AK069728](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/AK069728)&nbsp;,&nbsp;[L34271](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/L34271)
- **UniProt accessions:** [](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprotkb//entry)

## Sequences:
- **CDS Sequence:**
- **Protein Sequence:**
