---
title: "Gossypium arboreum (A2) 'SXY1' genome CRI-updated_v1"
date: 2019-02-17T18:48:15+08:00
meta_title: ""
description: "this is meta description"
image: "/images/6.png"
categories: ["Application", "Data"]
author: "Du et al"
tags: ["nextjs", "tailwind"]
draft: false
---
## Overview
### Analysis Name:	Gossypium arboreum (A2) 'SXY1' genome CRI-updated_v1
### Method	:PacBio long-reads and Hi-C
### Source	:G. arboreum A2 genome CRI-Updated v1.0-a1.0
### About the assembly

A new assembly of the Gossypium arboreum genome (cultivated diploid cotton Shixiya1) was reported by the Cotton Research Institute of Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CRI-CAAS).  The reassembled vesrion is on the basis of PacBio long-reads and Hi-C technologies, and the population structure and genomic divergence trends of 243 diploid cotton accessions was analyzed. A number of candidate loci that may facilitate the genetic improvement of cotton lint production were identified.

142.54 Gb of raw PacBio reads (approximately 77.6-fold genome coverage) was generated by using SMRT sequencing technology and these reads were assembled into 8,223 contigs, producing a 1,710 Mb G. arboreum genome with a contig N50 of 1,100 kb; the longest contig in the new assembly was 12.37 Mb.

Summary of the Updated Assembly	Numbers	N50 (kb)|	Longest (Mb)|	Size (Mb)|	Percentage of assembly
:-------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
Contigs|	8,223	|1,100	|12.37	|1,710|	100
Scaffolds	|n/a	|n/a	|n/a	|n/a	n/a
Anchored and oriented	|3,720|	730|	12.37	|1,573|	92
Gene annotated|	40,960	|n/a	|n/a|	123	|72
Repeat sequences	|n/a	|n/a	|n/a	|1,460	|85.39
 

## Publication

>[Du et al. Resequencing of 243 diploid cotton accessions based on an updated A genome identifies the genetic basis of key agronomic traits. Nature genetics. 2018 May 07.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41588-018-0116-x)
