---
description: Soly09g014990.3 ; Solanum lycopersicum
meta_title:
title: SlWRKY81
categories: [Solanum lycopersicum]
tags: [ seedlings,root,resistance,stress,ja,immunity,homeostasis,jasmonic,jasmonic acid,stress response,ja signaling,saline stress,protein ]
---

## Gene Details:
- **Gene ID:** [Soly09g014990.3]()
- **Gene Symbol:** <u>SlWRKY81</u>
- **Gene Name:** 
- **Genome:** []()
- **Species:** *Solanum lycopersicum*

## Functional Descriptions:
   - **SlWRKY81** regulates Spd synthesis and Na+/K+ homeostasis through interaction with SlJAZ1 mediated JA pathway to improve tomato saline-alkali resistance.
   - Investigated the role of **SlWRKY81** in conferring saline-alkali stress resistance by using overexpression and knockout tomato seedlings obtained via genetic modification.
   - Saline-alkali stress induces an increase in jasmonic acid (JA) content in tomato seedlings, and the **SlWRKY81** promoter responds to JA signaling, leading to an increase in **SlWRKY81** expression.
   - Elevated JA content reduces the inhibitory effect of SlJAZ1 on **SlWRKY81**, leading to the release of additional **SlWRKY81** protein and further augmenting the resistance of tomato to saline-alkali stress.
   - The modulation of Spd synthesis and Na+/K+ homeostasis mediated by the interaction between **SlWRKY81** and SlJAZ1 represents a novel pathway underlying tomato response to saline-alkali stress.
   - **SlWRKY81** positively modulates saline-alkali stress by increasing tomato proline content, antioxidant capacity, and root activity and decreasing MDA content.
   - SlWRKY30 and **SlWRKY81** synergistically modulate tomato immunity to Ralstonia solanacearum by directly regulating SlPR-STH2.

## Function-related keywords:
   - [seedlings](/tags/seedlings/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[root](/tags/root/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[resistance](/tags/resistance/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[stress](/tags/stress/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[ja](/tags/ja/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[immunity](/tags/immunity/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[homeostasis](/tags/homeostasis/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[jasmonic](/tags/jasmonic/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[jasmonic-acid](/tags/jasmonic-acid/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[stress-response](/tags/stress-response/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[ja-signaling](/tags/ja-signaling/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[saline-stress](/tags/saline-stress/),&nbsp;&nbsp;[protein](/tags/protein/)

## Literature:
   - [SlWRKY81 regulates Spd synthesis and Na(+) /K(+) homeostasis through interaction with SlJAZ1 mediated JA pathway to improve tomato saline-alkali resistance.](https://doi.org/10.1111/tpj.16709)&nbsp;&nbsp;DOI:&nbsp;&nbsp;[10.1111/tpj.16709](https://doi.org/10.1111/tpj.16709);&nbsp;&nbsp;PMID:&nbsp;&nbsp;[38468425](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38468425/)

## Related News:

## Gene Resources:
- **NCBI ID:**  [](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/?term=)
- **UniProt accessions:**  [](https://www.uniprot.org/uniprotkb//entry)

## Orthologs:

## Sequences:
- **CDS Sequence:**
- **Protein Sequence:**
